Add changelog for 2025-07-25 with integration improvements (#3676)
neondatabase/website: content/changelog/2025-07-25.md

- Answer questions about Neon features, workflows, and troubleshooting.
- Find relevant documentation and best practices.
- Create support tickets related to your issue, connecting you directly with our support team when you need deeper help.

![Neon AI Assistant in Console](/docs/relnotes/neon_ai_assistant.png)

## Devin AI integrates with Neon through MCP Marketplace

You can now use **Devin**, Cognition Lab's AI software engineer, with Neon's [MCP server](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-mcp) through Cognition Lab's new MCP (Model Context Protocol) [marketplace](https://app.devin.ai/settings/mcp-marketplace)! This helps Devin manage your Neon databases using natural language commands for tasks like creating projects, running SQL queries, and performing database migrations.

This integration demonstrates how Neon's MCP server, designed as a workflow-first API for LLMs, enables AI agents to safely and confidently tackle complex database challenges.

> [Read the full blog post](https://neon.com/blog/devin-integrates-with-neon-through-new-mcp-marketplace) to learn more, or read our [MCP server docs](/docs/ai/neon-mcp-server) to see how it works.

Reviewer: Looks like it should be https://neon.com/blog/devin-and-neon-mcp-marketplace

```

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **MCP server updates**
  - We've deprecated Server-Sent Events (SSE) and now recommend **streamable HTTP** as the preferred connection method. The README has been updated to reflect this change.

  - Introduced a tool to list all organizations that the current user has access to. This tool allows optional filtering by organization name or ID.

  - Improved the preview deployment process by adding a comment on pull requests with the deployment URL, letting users know when a preview deployment is ready.

- **Datadog and OpenTelemetry integrations**
  - We enhanced the integration cards (accessible from your project's **Integrations** page in the Neon Console) for [Datadog](/docs/guides/datadog) and [OpenTelemetry](/docs/guides/opentelemetry) to give you better visibility into your export activity:
    - **Export statistics** now show how many metrics and logs were exported in the last 5 minutes, using easy-to-read K/M formatting.
    - **Failure alerts** warn you of recent export issues with clear error and warning messages.

    These updates make it easier to monitor your integrations at a glance.

>   - We also resolved an issue an issue where entering an incorrect API key in the OpenTelemetry integration would incorrectly reset the authentication method, showing both API key and Bearer inputs. The form now correctly resets to the chosen method.

Reviewer: extra "an issue"

[Read the full blog post](https://neon.com/blog/devin-and-neon-mcp-marketplace) to learn more, or read our [MCP server docs](/docs/ai/neon-mcp-server) to see how it works.

## Updated connection strings from Neon CLI and Neon API

Recently, we added the `channel_binding=require` option to connection strings and snippets in the Neon console, improving connection security. You can read more about this update in our [blog post](https://neon.com/blog/postgres-needs-better-connection-security-defaults).

Now, we've also updated the connection strings returned by the Neon CLI and Neon API to include the same security enhancement.

**CLI example**

```bash shouldWrap
neon cs --project-id purple-cake-43891234
```

**Will now return**

```bash shouldWrap
postgresql://neondb_owner:[password]@ep-shiny-sound-a5ydo1ie.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech/testingneon?sslmode=require&channel_binding=require
```

For upgrade instructions for the CLI, see [Upgrading the Neon CLI](/docs/reference/cli-install#upgrade).

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **MCP server updates**

>   - We've deprecated Server-Sent Events (SSE) and now recommend **streamable HTTP** as the preferred connection method. The README has been updated to reflect this change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - We've deprecated Server-Sent Events (SSE) and now recommend **streamable HTTP** as the preferred connection method. The [README](https://github.com/neondatabase-labs/mcp-server-neon/blob/main/README.md) has been updated to reflect this change.
```

---

## Bring your own email server to Neon Auth

We added the ability to configure your own email server to Neon Auth. This lets you send invite and other auth-related emails from your own domain — making Neon Auth's email handling production-ready.

You can use our shared email server for development, then switch to your own SMTP server when you're ready. Read more in the [docs](/docs/neon-auth/email-configuration).

![Neon Auth Email Configuration](/docs/relnotes/neon_auth_email.png)

## Neon AI Assistant now available for Free plan users

We've expanded access to our Neon AI Assistant! Previously available for Launch and Scale plan users, the AI Assistant is now available for **all users, including Free plan**. Find it under **?** > **Get help** in the Console. Our AI assistant can help:

- Answer questions about Neon features, workflows, and troubleshooting.
- Find relevant documentation and best practices.

![Neon AI Assistant in Console](/docs/relnotes/neon_ai_assistant.png)

## Devin AI integrates with Neon through MCP Marketplace

> You can now use **Devin**, Cognition Lab's AI software engineer, with Neon's [MCP server](hhttps://github.com/neondatabase-labs/mcp-server-neon) through Cognition Lab's new MCP (Model Context Protocol) [marketplace](https://app.devin.ai/settings/mcp-marketplace)! This helps Devin manage your Neon databases using natural language commands for tasks like creating projects, running SQL queries, and performing database migrations.

Reviewer: Fix URL, hhttps:// -> https://

This integration demonstrates how Neon's MCP server, designed as a workflow-first API for LLMs, enables AI agents to safely and confidently tackle complex database challenges.

[Read the full blog post](https://neon.com/blog/devin-and-neon-mcp-marketplace) to learn more, or read our [MCP server docs](/docs/ai/neon-mcp-server) to see how it works.

## Updated connection strings from Neon CLI and Neon API

Recently, we added the `channel_binding=require` option to connection strings and snippets in the Neon console, improving connection security. You can read more about this update in our [blog post](https://neon.com/blog/postgres-needs-better-connection-security-defaults).

Now, we've also updated the connection strings returned by the Neon CLI and Neon API to include the same security enhancement.

**CLI example**

```bash shouldWrap
neon cs --project-id purple-cake-43891234
```

**Will now return**

```bash shouldWrap
postgresql://neondb_owner:[password]@ep-shiny-sound-a5ydo1ie.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech/testingneon?sslmode=require&channel_binding=require
```

For upgrade instructions for the CLI, see [Upgrading the Neon CLI](/docs/reference/cli-install#upgrade).

> ## OpenTelemetry integration now supports Grafana Cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Export Neon metrics and Postgres logs to Grafana
```

> You can now monitor your Neon databases with Grafana Cloud using our OpenTelemetry integration. This lets you forward metrics and Postgres logs from Neon to any OTEL-compatible observability platform, including Grafana Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now monitor your Neon databases with Grafana Cloud using our OpenTelemetry integration, which lets you forward metrics and Postgres logs from Neon to any OTEL-compatible observability platform.
```
